
# Code and Data Supplementary Information for Twomey et al. (2021)

This repository contains two directories with supplementary code and data
for Twomey et al. (2021).



## Code

In the code directory, code/inv.R contains an implementation of the algorithm
used to infer language-specific communicative needs. A demonstration of the
algorithm is available in code/example.R. The demo can be executed line-by-line
in an R REPL, and follows the example used in SI Fig. S1.  Rate-distortion
optimal quantizations used in this example are generated by the algorithm
provided in code/rd.R.

All code is open source under a GNU GPL v3 license (see LICENSE).



## Data

In the data directory, three CSV files are provided, corresponding to SI
Datasets S1, S2, and S3.


### SI Dataset S1 (communicative_needs.csv)

Language-specific inferred distributions for each language in the combined
WCS+B&K data is stored in data/communicative_needs.csv, with one row for each
language. The `lnum` field for the first 1-110 rows correspond to the `lnum` fields
for the languages in the WCS data archived [here](
http://www1.icsi.berkeley.edu/wcs/data.html). The remaining 20 rows, 111-130,
correspond to the 20 languages in the B&K dataset (available in the same
archive as the WCS data above). Subtracting 110 from the `lnum`s for these
languages gives the corresponding `lnum`s for the B&K dataset.  The name of each
language is provided as the second column in the CSV file. The remaining
columns, numbered 1-330 corresponding to their `cnum` in the WCS, contain the
language specific inferred values for each language and color chip.


### SI Dataset S2 (average_communicative_needs.csv)

The average inferred distribution across all 130 languages is stored in
data/average_communicative_needs.csv. Each row corresponds to a single color
chip in the WCS data, indexed by the `cnum` field. The value of the average
inferred distribution for each chip is provided in the `average` column.  The
values of `cnum` correspond to the chip numbering used in cnum-vhcm-lab-new.txt
from the [World Color Survey archive](
http://www1.icsi.berkeley.edu/wcs/data/cnum-maps/cnum-vhcm-lab-new.txt).


### SI Dataset S3 (bootstrapped_communicative_needs.csv)

Distributions of language-specific communicative needs inferred by resampling
language focal colors with replacement. The structure of the data is the same
as for SI Dataset S1, except with 100 consecutive rows per language.

All data is shared under a creative commons CC-BY-SA license.

